you alluded to the situation with
Claudine gay now for everybody watching
and listening Claudine gay is was the
president of Harvard University despite
being woefully unqualified for that
position in fact I believe after
reviewing her academic record that she's
woefully unqualified to be a tene
professor at Harvard her publication
record is thin to say the least with a
record like that she likely wouldn't
have got a interview under normal
circumstances at the University of
Toronto for the psychology department
for an entry-level position and so it's
woefully inadequate now Claudine gay is
also the person who revealed I would say
the
absolute decay of the ivy league system
at Congress last year with the president
of upen and the president of MIT and
then was embroiled in a plagiarism
Scandal brought to light by publicized
primarily by Christopher rufo who's
working in Florida with Ronda santis now
you're tangled up in that business in a
major way and so you alluded to that
earlier and I also presume that this has
at least tangential connection with
these attempts that you just described
to undermine you and destroy you so
could we walk through the Claudine gay
situation first and then talk about the
other more destructive elements of your
experience in Academia
we can uh walk through the Claudine gay
situation first you were very generous
to her uh as far as I'm concerned her
dissertation which was heavily
plagarized and there she used my work to
set up a straw man uh actually taking
one of my conclusions to frame her
research uh question there was direct uh
ver ver verbatim pleasur ISM but many uh
ideas that were stolen I Quest and I
don't call her Dr Gay I called her
Claudine gay because to get a PhD you're
supposed to have original work that you
uh defend and in my POS from my
perspective if that work parts of it is
pleasurizer
issue there she's only met a few
Corrections of her work and the 11
articles that she
3/4 of them were pleasu I was not the
only person pleasu I believe there maybe
20 people alog together it's quite a few
and there are about 50 instances of
pleasur ism she's earning $900,000 a
year her Harvard uh presidential salary
she was allowed to keep it and to add
insult to injury there was a lot of
insult to injury when it comes to me
because she's never apologized never
reached out to me
she's teaching a course in the fall on
reading and research ethics wow wow okay
so part of the reason I wanted to talk
to you was because I was following the
Claudine gay story as it so painfully
unfolded and I learned about you and
then a mystery sort of emerged for me
and maybe you can help me it's it's what
would you say Dangerous Ground To Tread
on but I'm going to try to weave my way
through it nonetheless
you would think if you thought about
this situation rationally and maybe even
with a certain degree of cynicism that
you would be a much better poster boy
for the Democrat progressives than
Claudine gay
because there's the racial issue
obviously which unfortunately in this
day and age can't be overlooked but
Claudine gay came from a privileged
background from an economic perspective
and her family's very powerful I believe
in Haiti which is
already is something that stirs up all
sorts of questions given the state of
that country and she was by no means
oppressed at least on economic grounds
and you came from well the archetypal
rags to Rich's situation fundamentally
and you're making claims that Claudine
gay used your original work to build
herself a pseudo career and hasn't been
called out on it okay so I don't
understand why this isn't a much bigger
Scandal than it is because I can't
imagine anybody situated to be more
credible than you to bring up these
sorts of allegations which you just
duplicated and even extended you know
describing your unwillingness even
to describe her with her hypothetical
academic credential do and so you're
obviously not very happy about this so
what ideas do you believe that she took
from you why does it matter what should
happen with her what has happened and
what hasn't happened like I know she
still has her tenure faculty position at
Harvard and I can't understand that
because if she
was crooked enough to be taken out of
her position as president for plagiarism
she is clearly
if that was the reason she's clearly not
suitable to be a professor at Harvard
because in my way of thinking about
things being a professor at Harvard is
not a lesser position than being the
president of Harvard that's an
administrative position and it's key
administrative position but 10e
professor at Harvard that's a very hard
thing to manage and you don't get to
have that if there are questions for
example about whether or not you bloody
well plagiarized all of your
academic work so and I don't understand
okay so can you help me tell me what's
going on well I can tell you that
progressives never supported me even
when I was hired at Princeton it was the
conservative professors that were so
delighted at uh at what I presented and
when I was hired I had a national
science I had had a National Science
Foundation grant for my dissertation
research I had a had a Harvard press
contract on my um on a book and I had
offers of signning bonuses I had my own
short list back in those days I was
hired in 1989 started
1990 they held all professors to high
standards and to get tenured in the ivy
league you had to have path breaking
work the work needs to be considered
seminal and I met those standards but
early on the progressives did not like
me one of the professors who is at
Harvard today I could name her she is a
friend of CLA and gay but she sat me
down the first week I was on campus and
told me that I acted as if I didn't need
black people that I couldn't trust white
people that white people would sell me
down the river and so I was never the um
uh poster child for the progressives
because I did not fit that narrative and
and I was told many times that I did not
need to share my background because I've
always shared where I came from that was
always an embarrassment to the
progressives and so look at Claudine gay
and during the time that I was at our
Princeton and I sometimes I was on
admission committees I saw them pick
blacks that had weaker academic
credentials but the right pedigree
claudian gay uh Phillips exitor Academy
undergrad at Sanford and uh and
Princeton and then uh the PhD from
Harvard she had the right pedigree they
have always used affirmative action to
handpick the people that they wanted and
I think about um Claudine gay and other
minorities that I have encountered for
some
reason
white Pro progressives or the people who
run universities have always favored the
Angry Black
and they have wanted those in my mind
who had weaker credentials and so I was
never rewarded I never um uh received a
an a cheered position while I was in
Academia and the environment was just
not conducive to my thriving and I left
Academia in
2017 the mediate Catalyst for that was
2016 I wrote an opinion piece
criticizing Islam lam it created a fir
storm my circumstances changed uh the
university distanced itself from me and
at some point I realized I couldn't be
my best self under those circumstances I
was not getting any younger and so I
took early retirement and I had to
reinvent myself I walked away from the
tenure that I worked so hard to earn and
I can tell you that I'm very sad because
I love students and I assumed that I
would be teaching until I retired at a
normal age but I took the early
retirement and I knew nothing about
Claud gay still in my research until
December 10th when the Chris R rufo
story broke and I was willing to give
her the benefit of a doubt because I
thought maybe it was an accident you
know I didn't realize until I started
reading her work that her dissertation
itself was framed around my work and
some of her early articles and she
essentially uh set up a straw man using
my work without doing it the way
professors are taught uh to disagree
like normally if you want to take you
can take down anyone but you say uh who
you're taking down why they're wrong you
lay out a case uh for that and you
certainly include them in your
literature review and those are things
that she didn't do
[Music]
oh